v0.40.0 changelog - Vibrational Hamiltonians (#6765)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.40.0.md

  pes_object = qml.qchem.VibrationalPES(
          freqs=np.array([0.025]),
          grid=grid,
          uloc=np.array([[1.0]]),
          gauss_weights=gauss_weights,
          pes_data=[pes_onemode, pes_twomode],
          dipole_data=[dipole_onemode],
          localized=False,
          dipole_level=1,
      )
  ```

  * The :func:`~.qchem.taylor_hamiltonian` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian from a :class:`~.VibrationalPES` object.
  [(#6523)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6523)

  ```pycon
  >>> qml.qchem.taylor_hamiltonian(pes_object, 4, 2)
  (
      0.016867926879358452 * I(0)
    + -0.007078617919572303 * Z(0)
    + 0.0008679410939323631 * X(0)
  )
  ```

  * The :func:`~.qchem.taylor_bosonic` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian in terms of Bosonic operators.
  [(#6523)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6523)

  ```pycon
  >>> coeffs_arr = qml.qchem.taylor_coeffs(pes_object)
  >>> bose_op = qml.qchem.taylor_bosonic(coeffs_arr, pes_object.freqs, is_local=pes_object.localized, uloc=pes_object.uloc)
  >>> type(bose_op)
  pennylane.bose.bosonic.BoseSentence
  ```

>   The `pennylane.qchem.vibrational` submodule also includes functionality to optimize molecular
>   geometries and convert between representations:

Author: ```suggestion
  Additional functionality is available to optimize molecular geometries and convert between representations:
```

Reviewer: Added in an upcoming commit

  Additional fine-tuning is available within each function, such as the maximum number of allowed
  bosonic states and a tolerance for discarding imaginary parts of the coefficients.

<h4>Construct vibrational Hamiltonians 🔨</h4>

> * The new `pennylane.qchem.vibrational` submodule contains several features to help with the
> construction of vibrational Hamiltonians. This includes:
>   * The `VibrationalPES` class to store potential energy surface information. 

Author: ```suggestion
* The new :mod:`qml.qchem.vibrational <pennylane.qchem.vibrational>` submodule contains several features to help with the
construction of vibrational Hamiltonians. This includes:
  * The :class:`~.VibrationalPES` class to store potential energy surface information:
```

Author: Wait... is there a `vibrational` module? 🤔

Reviewer: It doesn't appear in the docs :cry:

Author: Ruh roh, should it? 🐶

Reviewer: The `__init__` file is very sparse for it, I don't think it's intended to show.
I remember Austin saying something about a pending ticket to update the documentation in Q1. Probably related to this.

Author: ```suggestion
* The :mod:`~.qchem` module now contains several features to help with the
construction of vibrational Hamiltonians. This includes:
  * The `VibrationalPES` class to store potential energy surface information. 
```

  [(#6652)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6652)

  ```python
  pes_onemode = np.array([[0.309, 0.115, 0.038, 0.008, 0.000, 0.006, 0.020, 0.041, 0.070]])
  pes_twomode = np.zeros((1, 1, 9, 9))
  dipole_onemode = np.zeros((1, 9, 3))
  gauss_weights = np.array([3.96e-05, 4.94e-03, 8.85e-02,
                                  4.33e-01, 7.20e-01, 4.33e-01,
                                  8.85e-02, 4.94e-03, 3.96e-05])
  grid = np.array([-3.19, -2.27, -1.47, -0.72,  0.0,  0.72,  1.47,  2.27,  3.19])
  pes_object = qml.qchem.VibrationalPES(
          freqs=np.array([0.025]),
          grid=grid,
          uloc=np.array([[1.0]]),
          gauss_weights=gauss_weights,
          pes_data=[pes_onemode, pes_twomode],
          dipole_data=[dipole_onemode],
          localized=False,
          dipole_level=1,
      )
  ```

>   * The `taylor_hamiltonian` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian from a `VibrationalPES` object.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The :func:`~.taylor_hamiltonian` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian from a :class:`~.VibrationalPES` object.
```

  [(#6523)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6523)

  ```pycon
  >>> qml.qchem.taylor_hamiltonian(pes_object, 4, 2)
  (
      0.016867926879358452 * I(0)
    + -0.007078617919572303 * Z(0)
    + 0.0008679410939323631 * X(0)
  )
  ```

>   * The `taylor_bosonic` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian in terms of Bosonic operators.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The :func:`~.qchem.taylor_bosonic` function to build a Taylor Hamiltonian in terms of Bosonic operators.
```

Link for Taylor Hamiltonian?

  [(#6523)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6523)

  ```pycon
  >>> coeffs_arr = qml.qchem.taylor_coeffs(pes_object)
  >>> bose_op = qml.qchem.taylor_bosonic(coeffs_arr, pes_object.freqs, is_local=pes_object.localized, uloc=pes_object.uloc)
  >>> type(bose_op)
  pennylane.bose.bosonic.BoseSentence
  ```

* The `pennylane.qchem.vibrational` submodule also includes functionality to optimize molecular
  geometries and convert between representations:

>   * Convert Christiansen Hamiltonian integrals in the harmonic oscillator basis to 
>   integrals in the vibrational self-consistent field (VSCF) basis with the `vscf_integrals`

Author: ```suggestion
  * Convert Christiansen Hamiltonian integrals in the harmonic oscillator basis to 
  integrals in the vibrational self-consistent field (VSCF) basis with the :func:`~.qchem.vscf_integrals`
```

Link for Christiansen Hamiltonians?

>   function. [(#6688)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6688)

Author: ```suggestion
  function. 
  [(#6688)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6688)
```

>   * Find the lowest energy configuration of molecules with `optimize_geometry`.
>   [(#6453)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6453)
>   [(#6666)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6666)

Author: ```suggestion
  * Find the lowest energy configuration of molecules with :func:`~.qchem.optimize_geometry`.
    [(#6453)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6453)
    [(#6666)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6666)
```

>   * Separate normal mode frequencies and localize them with `localize_normal_modes`.
>   [(#6453)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6453)

Author: ```suggestion
  * Separate normal mode frequencies and localize them with :func:`~.qchem.localize_normal_modes`.
    [(#6453)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6453)
```
